In the previous lesson we talked about how the Pearson correlation should only really be calculated
on continuous data and also how outliers can kind of distort the picture and mislead us.
The examples that I've used to illustrate this point was ask harms quartet and these four charts illustrated
how very different patterns in the data can actually give you very very similar descriptive statistics.
If you're not careful what I want to show you now is how this isn't really just a hypothetical example.
We can also see something similar happening in our housing data set when we don't apply the right tools
to the right kind of data and aren't careful with our interpretations.
Remember how a correlation of zero point nine or one is meant to look like you'd expect to see a chart
that kind of looks like this where the data points almost form a straight line looking at a correlation
matrix.
We've actually got a number here a very high number zero point nine one as the correlation between RHD
are access to radial highways and our tax feature so given our expectation of what a high correlation
between two variables would look like Let's visualize this relationship and see what we get.
I'm actually gonna copy this so here with our joint plot from Seabourn and then I'm going to paste it
in here move the salt down and then what I'm gonna do is going to change the references from distance
and nitrous oxide to tax and R R A D and for the color I'm going to go with I don't know maybe dark
red and then it shift into whether this is what we get now this picture is probably not what we would've
expected to see had we just looked at the correlation but we've said before that this very high correlation
that we have between these two variables is a result of the fact that this data is not continuous and
the fact that there are these big outliers in the top right corner that are driving this correlation
one thing that's actually very interesting to do as an exercise is to plot the linear regression onto
this chart and see how it's affected by the data here.
So let's see what would happen if we ran a linear regression between these two features.
Now previously we've run our regressions separately using the psychic learn module and we've plotted
our best fit lines on a map plot lib chart.
Let me show you a shortcut on how you can use Seabourn to do this very very quickly.
So if I come down here and in this cell I'm going to make use of a function called l m plot.
So S.A. dot elem plot parentheses and an X is gonna be our tax and Y is gonna be R D and for the data
that we're gonna feed in the data keyword argument is gonna be our data frame.
So it's gonna be data theta equals data comma size equals seven.
So with this line of code is gonna do it's gonna look in our data frame which is this bit of Python
code here and it's gonna look for a column called Rad and it's also going to look for a column called
Tax the thing that might be a little bit confusing is this data equals data Python code.
But this first part data equals is the keyword argument and data.
Here is the name of R Python data frame.
So I'm gonna add another line party dot show and it shift into what I hand.
Just like that.
We've plotted a linear regression between our two features on this chart.
SEABORNE has done a lot of work for us here and I hope you're seeing just how useful this little python
module really is.
Now let's interpret and make sense of what we're looking at on this chart.
The data points in our top right corner are affecting the slope of our regression line significantly.
It's like they're pulling up that regression line to make it steeper hand looking at this.
You can see how a linear regression between rad and tax might not be such a good idea because the regression
line is kind of meant to represent the data bit better.
Right.
And here we're forcing this linear regression model onto a data set that's not really suited for it.
Ha computers will happily do this calculation but we end up with a model that's perhaps not so useful
to capture the true relationship between accessibility to highways and tax.
But luckily we're in the business of estimating house prices right.
So what we should actually be looking at is how our features relate to our target namely our Boston
property values coming down here.
I want to give you another challenge.
I want you to pause the video and run a few more scatter plots for data visualization.
The first one should be between the number of rooms our home and our target.
This is the price series in our data frame.
Now you can either use my plot lib or Seabourn to accomplish this.
I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video
ready.
Here's the solution.
Now I'm going to be very very lazy and I'm going to come up here and copy the code that I've previously
written
and paste that down here and what I want to do is I want to change all the references from Knox and
this to R.M. and TGT target.
So data are M. and data.
Price for the correlations.
And of course I want to change the inputs to the scatter plot for the color.
I'm gonna go with Sky Blue to differentiate a little bit and then I see R.M. versus price and then for
the correlation of course I want to go our M underscore TGT and the score core and this is going to
be our M which is the median number of rooms on the Y label.
It's gonna be price property price in thousands let's see what we get.
Voila.
Now let me do the same thing with Seabourn and you know what I'm going to use L plot to pull up the
regression line as well so as soon as Dot Elam plot parentheses x equals r m comma Y equals single quotes
price comma data equals data and essay size equals seven PDT dot show parentheses.
Okay so how do we interpret what we're seeing here.
Well the first thing is that our positive correlation of zero point seven APR ties out really really
nicely with the relationship that we're seeing on the scatter plot.
So this means that room size alone has a very very clear relationship with our house price.
And I think that's kind of neat to see.
One of the other things that I find quite interesting when looking at this chart is that there almost
seems to be like a ceiling on the property prices at the 50000 dollar mark because there's a lot of
data points that are on this line here.
And I think that's quite quite curious because it could be coincidence but it might also have something
to do with how the data was collected in the 1970s but for the purposes of this tutorial I'm not really
going to dig into these kind of details.
There's so much other stuff that I want to focus on.
One of the things that you might already be thinking at this point is you've got like 13 variables and
there are just too many combinations to graph individually we can't possibly copy and paste like ourselves
in our code to graph all these scatter plots individually.
Right hand.
Yeah.
Where we're not going to do that because remember we have to think like lazy programmers and what would
lazy programmers do.
They would graph every single combination at once and this is where Seabourn is going to come to the
rescue once again because Seabourn has a function called Power plot which will do just that.
So S.A. dot plot parentheses and then as an argument when it needs our entire data frame.
So as soon as that pair plot parentheses data BLT dot show will create scatter plots between all our
features and our target.
But I hope you didn't type shift enter just now and run this thing already because there's something
I want to show you before I execute this cell.
I want to show you a little bit of Jupiter a notebook specific code a little bit of Jupiter notebook
magic if you will cause the thing is power plot actually has to do a lot of calculations and it takes
some time to run.
And what I want to show you is how you can benchmark or time specific bits of code.
People actually call this micro benchmarking because we're benchmarking a few lines of code.
We're benchmarking an individual cell and there's a magic command for Jupiter notebook and this commanders
percent sign percent sign time.
And now when a hit shift enter to run the cell ready.
Here we go now my computer has produced all these plots.
Check it out and because I've added that Jupiter notebook magic code I've got some additional information
printed out here as well this is showing me how long it took to run my code.
Now when you're running this at home I don't know how long it'll take you.
I don't know if it'll take you like 19 seconds like it took me.
Or like 40 seconds or maybe five seconds depending on the kind of machine that you've got.
But I think this is a really neat feature from Jupiter notebook because suppose you want to make a decision
between two different types of algorithms or two different ways of running your code say if you've got
something that takes a little bit longer and you're looking to like optimize it a little bit or do a
horse race between two different algorithms this time and capability of Jupiter notebook can come in
quite handy.
So we've done this a little bit out of curiosity and so that you can see that you know your computer
didn't freeze up or whatever because it took me some time as well to run this bit of code.
But that said this has some other practical applications as well.
Another thing to know about Jupiter a notebook actually.
On this note is that up here in the right hand corner there is a little dot here that for me is currently
not filled in.
And when I hover over it I can see it says Colonel idle.
This means that Jupiter notebook is currently not doing anything.
If I was to execute this cell again during that execution you could see that this dot is filled in.
And it says Colonel busy.
So this gives you an indication that at the moment are Jupiter notebook is doing a lot of work and that
even though it might look like there is nothing happening.
Our computer is actually working.
This is another handy little thing to know about Jupiter notebook.
Now let's take a look at our output here.
So what you can actually see here is kind of a cropped version or a zoomed out version of the actual
size of this image.
This image in fact here is a lot larger than what's being displayed.
So we're kind of zoomed out if you want to see the full size image which I encourage you to try and
do what you can do as you can right click on this thing click save us.
Stick it in your downloads folder as joint plot or what have you.
And then in your Downloads folder open it up and pull it up in your graphics program of choice.
So I've got a Mac and I'm using preview here so I can go here and go to actual size.
And here you see a zoomed in actual size 100 percent version of this image.
Now the other thing that you can actually do is you can open this image up in a new tab.
So if I right click on this image and I'm using Firefox here this will be different on Chrome or Safari
or Internet Explorer of course but you can easily do is you can do something like this and then you
don't have to download this image and dig it out of your panels folder.
So I think this is quite handy.
Now I've got two tabs.
One of the full sized version of the image and one with my notebook.
So what we can see here is that we've got scatter plots for every single column in our data frame.
So we've got price versus crime price versus zone price versus industry price versus Chaz price versus
an X or our M.
And then we've also got our start versus crime.
I'll start versus zone outside versus industry but the really neat thing is that in the diagonal down
the middle.
Yeah.
So this would be crime versus crime.
We get a histogram.
So this is the histogram for the Z N feature.
This is the histogram for index.
This is the histogram for this is the here's the crime for Charles and so on.
And down here we've got the histogram for price.
So the diagonal shows is the histogram and everything else shows us a scatter plot scrolling down to
the last row namely the price row.
We can check out for which features we can very very clearly see a relationship between property prices
and the feature.
So here this is crime and price going a bit to the right we've got price and industry and we can definitely
picture some sort of relationship here.
Right.
Going a bit further.
We've got price and room size.
This is a scatter plot that we've created earlier.
And here there was definitely also a relationship going further all the way to the right.
We see this one here price and else that.
Now again this scatter plot is actually showing us a very very clear relationship between these two
things.
It almost reminds me of pollution and distance in terms of its shape.
Right.
But what is else that we haven't really talked about this feature before.
So let's take a look at the description.
So coming back to the Jupiter notebook the top where we printed out the description we see that for
else that it's percentage lower status of the population.
Now this description might not be sort of the politically correct wording that people might use these
days but in a nutshell this feature measures the socioeconomic background of people in the neighborhood.
I actually wanted to get a little bit more detail on stand.
So I checked back with what it said in the original research paper to get a little bit more of a complete
description and what it says here is that by lower status what the data's actually capturing are things
like what percentage of people don't have a high school education and what proportion of male workers
are classified as laborers.
So when I read this description I immediately looked back at my correlation matrix because what I wanted
to check was the correlation between El stat and industry.
So the proportion of industry in a neighborhood and the proportion of people who are classified as laborers
or who don't have a high school education.
And that correlation it turns out is zero point six.
So it's both positive and fairly high.
So reading this description now all of sudden this correlation made a whole lot more sense and coming
back to this scatter plot between El stant and house prices is that what we can also clearly see is
that the property prices tend to be lower in areas that have a high proportion of people who have no
high school education or who work in factories.
In other words the property prices appear to be affected by the kind of people who live in the neighborhood.
But we shouldn't jump to conclusions just yet are multi variable regression will tell us a lot more
but a lot.
Speaking of regression and looking at these charts and the pair plot wouldn't it be nice to be able
to plot a regression line onto all of these plots as well.
I think that would make it a lot more clear don't you think.
Let's go back to our Jim Boulden notebook and go down into the next cell because S.A. dot plot parentheses
data comma kind equals single quotes are E G will show us that Seabourn will happily oblige if we add
an extra argument to the powerful pair plot function.
All we have to do is change the kind argument from SEPTA which is the default to pressing shift enter.
We can see that kind equals scatter is the default for this function and change that to regression which
has the code are e.g. now I know what this regression will look like because I've already run this code
before but the thing is it will be colored in exactly the same way as our data points.
So be blue on blue which won't be very very helpful.
We want to color our regression line in a little bit differently.
And I want to do that now.
I don't want to execute this code.
Wait 20 seconds and then add more code.
Wait another 20 seconds.
So I'm going to add another keyword argument here and that's gonna be the P L O T underscore K double
u s keyword argument plot a score kW s I'm gonna set that equal to a dictionary.
This is how we're gonna add a splash of color to our regression line a dictionary always has the curly
braces and then it has a key and a value the key is gonna be line on the score KW s and then the value
comes after the colon.
So what's the value that we're gonna put here.
It turns out it's actually gonna be another dictionary so we're gonna have curly braces and then another
key which is gonna be color and then a colon.
And here's the value scion which is gonna be the color and when I use.
So what we're looking at here now is a dictionary color colon scion which is the value for another dictionary
which is the line underscore KW s key.
In other words we've got a nested dictionary a dictionary inside a dictionary.
It's like the most boring version of the movie Inception but this is how we're going to get a color
for our regression line.
All that's left to add is P L T dot show.
And because I'm a very curious person I'm also going to add the percent percent time Jupiter notebook
magic not going to shift into bom bom bom bom what is happening I should really get a coffee while this
is running Perrigo.
Now it finished.
How long did it take to run forty seven seconds.
It's absolutely brutal but let's take a look at what this looks like now again.
We can see just how big this images.
It's about two thousand five hundred pixels.
Times thousand five pixels.
This is at 25 percent 100 percent.
Looks more like this with the help of our regression line on our chart.
We can now also visually see the positive relationship between our industry variable and else that so
we know the correlation was around zero point six.
And now we can also see that borne out in the positively sloped regression line right here and in the
last row we can see a regression line between each feature and our target variable individually.
This is really neat because we can see if the slope is positive or negative and it's basically doing
a unit variant regression 13 times.
But the power of our analysis isn't gonna come from looking at our aggressions against that target in
isolation.
The power comes from combining all our explanatory variables and running a multi variable regression.
Now I have a feeling this air pollution themed cartoon reference is betraying my age a little bit.
The point I'm trying to make is that we're going to combine all the explanatory power in our features
to estimate our property prices in Boston and our model of choice is called multi variable regression
after we've done all that we're going to evaluate our results and see if we can improve our model further.
I'll see you in the next lessons.